Title: BOAST: Performance Portability Using Meta-Programming and Auto-Tuning

Abstract: Performance portability of HPC applications is of paramount importance but tedious and costly in terms of human resources. Unfortunately those efforts are often lost when migrating to new architectures as optimization are not generally applicable. In the Mont-Blanc European project we tackle this problem from several angles. One of them is by using task based runtime (OmpSs) to get adaptive scientific applications. Another one is by promoting scientific application auto-tuning. Unfortunately, the investment to setup a dedicated auto-tuning framework is usually too expensive for a single application. Source to source transformations or compiler based solutions exist but sometimes prove too restrictive to cover all use-cases.

We thus propose BOAST a meta-programming framework aiming at generating parametrized source code. The aim is for the programmer to be able to orthogonally express optimizations on a computing kernel, enabling a thorough search of the optimization space. This also allows a lot of code factorization and thus code base reduction. We will demonstrate the use of BOAST on a classical Laplace kernel. Demonstrating how our embedded DSL allowed the description of non trivial optimizations. We will also show how the BOAST framework enabled performance and non regression tests to be performed on the generated code versions, resulting in proven and efficient computing kernels on several architectures.

Bio: Frédéric Desprez is a Chief Senior Research Scientist at Inria (Corse team Grenoble). He received his PhD in C.S. from Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France, in 1994 and his MS in C.S. from ENS Lyon in 1990. At Inria, he holds a position of Deputy Scientific Director in charge of High Performance Computing, Distributed Systems, networks, and software engineering. In 2008, he obtained an IBM faculty award for his work around data distribution and scheduling for grid and Cloud platforms.

Frederic's current activities include parallel algorithms, scheduling for large scale distributed platforms (clusters, grids, and Clouds), data management, and grid and cloud computing. He leads the Grid'5000 project, which offers a platform to evaluate large scale algorithms, applications, and middleware systems.

See http://graal.ens-lyon.fr/~desprez/ for further information. 
