Brice Videau received the M.Eng. degree in chemistry from ENSCM, Montpellier, France, in 2003, the M.Eng. degree in computer science from ENSIMAG, Grenoble, France, in 2004, and the Ph.D. degree in computer science from UJF?Grenoble 1, Grenoble, in 2009. Since 2010, he has been a Postdoctoral Fellow with the L_Sim Laboratory, INAC, CEA and with the CNRS at Grenoble. He is working on code generation, optimization and auto-tuning for High Performance Computing and does so in several European projects (Mont-BLanc, HPC4E, EoCoE).

Kevin Pouget received his Computer Science PhD degree from the University of Grenoble in 2014, for his work on interactive debugging for multicore and embedded systems. He now pursues his research work at the University as a Post-doctoral fellow, with a focus on OpenMP debugging. Through his experience, he got an advanced knowledge of the low-level aspects of programming languages, runtime libraries and their interactions with the operating systems.

Luigi Genovese is a  Computational Physicist in the domain of Material Sciences, with a education in Theoretical High Energy Physics. He is presently Researcher at the Laboratoire de Simulation Atomistique in CEA Grenoble, His research interests are related to the conception, development, and implementation of new theoretical algorithms and methods exploiting state-of-the-art computing resources, enabling large-scale computations in diverse areas of Solid-State physics, Quantum Chemistry and Electronic Structure calculations.

Thierry Deutsch, PhD, is a Research Director at the institute Nanosciences and Cryogeny (INAC, CEA) in Grenoble. He is a specialist of high performance computing in the field of solid state physics. He has developed some softwares as BigDFT and CPMD based on Schrodinger equations and the Density Functional Theory to calculate the electronic structure of materials or molecules.

Dimitri Komatitsch is a Research Director at CNRS, Marseille, France, in the Laboratory of Mechanics and Acoustics. He graduated from University of Paris, France and from Telecom ParisTech, France, in 1993 and got his PhD in geophysics and high performance computing from Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris, France, in 1997. He was then a Senior Research Fellow at Harvard University and Caltech, USA, before joining CNRS.

Frederic Desprez is a Chief Senior Research Scientist at Inria and holds a position at the LIG laboratory (UGA, Grenoble, France) in the Corse research team. He is also Deputy Scientific Director at Inria. He received his PhD in C.S. from Institut National Polytechnique de Grenoble, France, in 1994 and his MS in C.S. from ENS Lyon in 1990. His research interests include parallel high performance computing algorithms and scheduling for large scale distributed platforms. He leads the Grid'5000 project, which offers a platform to evaluate large scale algorithms, applications, and middleware systems. See https://fdesprez.github.io/ for further information.

Jean-Francois Mehaut is professor of Computer Science at Universite Grenoble Alpes (UGA). His fields of interest in research are high performance computing, runtime systems and debugging tools.  In particular, Jean-Francois Mehaut is interested in alternative and low power architectures to build the future exascale platforms. He was involved during 6 years in the European Mont-Blanc projects.  Jean-Francois Mehaut has also several scientific collaborations with Brazilian Universities (UFRGS, USP, PUC, UFSC, LNCC). These collaborations are developed and funded by several scientific projects (H2020 Europe Brazil, Capes, CNPq).

